PEP 722: Add parsing imports as a rejected idea (#3276)
python/peps: pep-0722.rst

extended form of) this approach. `Further discussion <pip-run issue_>`_ of
the ``pip-run`` design is available on the project's issue tracker.

Why not parse ``import`` statements?
------------------------------------

The idea would be to automatically recognize ``import`` statements in the source
file and turn them into a list of requirements.

> However, this is infeasible for several reasons. First, PyPI and other package
> repositories conforming to the Simple Repository API do not serve a mapping
> from import names to package names (see also
> `this related discussion <import-names_>`_).

Reviewer: Perhaps generalise this, and say somthing along the lines of:

```suggestion
However, this is infeasible for several reasons. First, PyPI and other package
repositories conforming to the Simple Repository API do not provide a mechanism
to resolve package names from the module names that are imported.
(see also `this related discussion <import-names_>`_).
```

extended form of) this approach. `Further discussion <pip-run issue_>`_ of
the ``pip-run`` design is available on the project's issue tracker.

Why not parse ``import`` statements?
------------------------------------

The idea would be to automatically recognize ``import`` statements in the source
file and turn them into a list of requirements.

However, this is infeasible for several reasons. First, the points above about
the necessity to keep the syntax easily parsable, for all Python versions,
also by tools written in other languages, apply equally here.

Second, PyPI and other package repositories conforming to the Simple
Repository API do not provide a mechanism to resolve package names from
the module names that are imported (see also `this related discussion
<import-names_>`_).

Third, even if repositories did offer this information, the same import
name may correspond to several packages on PyPI. One might object that
disambiguating which package is wanted would only be needed if there are
several projects providing the same import name. However, this would

> make it easy for anyone to unintentionally or malveolently break working

Reviewer: ```suggestion
make it easy for anyone to unintentionally or malevolently break working
```
